My Personal Development Plan

Your Name: Paige Matthews
What year of your degree: 2022 - 1
Next review date: 2023
I consent to be put forward for work placements within the holiday period? No, not currently
I consent to be assigned a mentor? No, not currently

Find 3 examples of job decriptions that you would like to be able to apply for in the future?
Video Game Developer - Make and code games
Front end developer - Works on visual elements of a websit. They work on aspects that users interact with. Work with the clients
Desktop Developers - Making new applications for desktop users


Describe the knowledge and skills you think you will need. What experiences might you need to have encountered during your learning journey?
Creativity, passion for video games, proficiency in c# and c++, ability to work in a team
Frontend languages, web development frameworks, critical thinking
Analytical thinking, complex problem solving, knowledge of systems analysis and development, ability to come up with new ways of doing things

In as much detail as you can identify why this path would appeal to you - is it travel, potential pay, creative control etc
Try and be as truthful and specific as you can.
Creativity control(even though it will always be limited by client), pontential amounts of pay 


SWOT Analysis
Complete the following table

Your Strengths                                        Your Weaknesses
What are you good at?                                 What could you improve?
Organised, Time management, Responsible,              Lack of confindence, impatient, procrastinate
Hard worker, Resilient



Your Opportunities                                    Your Threats
What are your opportunities over the next year?       What is stopping you from taking the opportunities?
Mentor, Placement                                     A lot of things already happening (Taking driving lessons, have a 16 hour contract with a cafe job)


Skill Gaps
Given the job roles you have identified, rate your own experience of the topic by the following:
- If you have never heard the term or only read about it 
- If you have completed up to a couple of instances of projects involving that skill
- If you have completed a handful or more projects involving that skill and would be happy to teach others
- If you have completed professional work involving the skill and have taught others to use it

Skill required                                         Description of your experience
desktop Developer - I've only really read about them, never really considered it as a career option. Haven't completed any instance of this kind of project.
Video Game developer - Have wanted to be a games developer for a long time. Have done bits of game developing not a whole project.
web developer - have done web development quite a lot. don't know if I'd be able to teach others but I can confidently use it myself.


Development Goals
Development needs for frocoming year (include as many learning needs as required to acheive agreed objectives)
Ensure your goals are SMART - specific, measurable, attainable, relevant and time-limited
Learning and Development Need
Type of development
Learn to work in a team better - better communication and not taking over people's work
Learn more development terminolgy and techniques
Work on learning at least 2 more languages


Timescales
Who is responsible - Me
 
Further comments
Provide a specific description of the Student desired changes (e.g. skills gained, knowledge acquired, topics/themes/content covered)
E.g. Course, Workshop, Conference, Self-development (researcher, reading, etc.), Coaching, Mentoring, Job Shadowing, Project work, Committee Membership, etc.
E.g. End of April, To be completed in the next 6 months, Over next 1-2 years.

E.g. Staff member, UHI L&D programme to support, Manager to arrange, Staff member to work with team and Manager, etc.
E.g. Resource requirements, Additional notes    
