LO1.1.1.2:reflection

I have learnt quite quickly that I find it very hard to manage my time.
While I am very good at making lists and planning out what I need to do.
Putting it into practice is harder then it seems. This is something I have put a lot of research into.
Procrastination is a big part of that but finding out how to beat it is harder.
With a neurodivergency it’s even harder.
I have learnt through years of beign in school that I need clearly defined goals to reach for if I want to do anything.
I set those goals daily using a to do list and time blocking.

The To-Do List helps me work out what I am going to do in that day and it helps when giving stands up.
I have a to-do list for every day that has minimum 3 items in, I’ve also learnt to accept not reaching those goals.
If I don’t do everything on my list then it goes into a backlog and I can do it the next day. This also goes into time-blocking.
I have a timetable where I ‘block’ out how my basic day will go.
This can change depending on the day or the week but it helps to manage how much time I am doing certain things.
It doesn’t always go to plan though.

Splitting your day can become difficult, certain projects can take over at certain times.
For instance, my personal projects and personal learning have increased because finding tasks to do in my team project and lack of communication meant that I had decreased the amount of time spent doing team project work.
Ideally I would split my day 40/60, not 50/50, 40% team work to 60% personal work.
This is due to the fact that while my team work does help me complete my learning outcomes to get my grades, it isn’t the sole thing that gets my grades and at this point in time, Grades is my main goal. Also being able to build a portfolio that is relevent to the roadmap I want to take could be vital. 

Often times, project work gets put on a ‘study backlog’ because as I only have a month to complete a set of learning outcomes.
Learning Outcomes become a priority. It’s also a lot harder for me to work in a team.
I tend to want to take over and do all of the work myself and that’s not really being part of a team.
It also doesn’t help when you only have tasks in a board that can be completed by certain members of the group and people jump in and out, leaving the rest with no idea what’s happening.

To keep my time management up to date I use Notion.
I have tried Bullet journalling and while I still use it for several other things, when I am working on a computer for anywhere between 6 to 10 hours a day it makes more sense to have everything you need to do on the screen.
Notion also gives me something most other notetaking apps I’ve used don’t, customisation. Notion creates an almost ready made website that you can fill in with what ever you need it to do. I have personally found it more user friendly than Obsidion.