
Agile operations fundamentals

Introduces you to Agile operations pattern
Operations - repeatable proccesses that bring values are continuous in nature with no defined start and end date.

Learning Outcomes
Define the term 'operations' in a business context
Describe the operations pattern
Describe the applications of core practices to operations
Describe the key Agile team roles and responsibilties for operations
Describe the ranban concept
Apply the Agile method to the operations work you do, which has repeatable processes, whether that be family, school, job or other types of work.

Recruitment, Finance, Call Centres, Supply chain, Software Operations, HR, Marketing, Services

Operations work                                    Process work
Any repeatable process that delivers value         Any type of project with a defined start and end date
Usually has no defined start and end date
Business as usual

The operations pattern is the approach used to get operations work done

Request > Prioritization > Operations Funnel > Delivery

Bottlenecks
Theory of constraints you can only deliver as fast as the slowest part of our process

The operation patterns is structured with four phases: Requests, Prioritization, pulling from the funnel of work and Delivery

Bottlenecks or constraints can happen anywhere in the operations patterns.
The team decides where they want the bottleneck to occur for best possible outcomes.

With operations works even though the work is done all the time, continuous improvement to the processes and tasks are always necessary for best outcomes.

A social contract sets clear expectations.
Clear expectations build trust among team members
Trust increases productivity, innovation and efficiencies among team members

Iterations are scheduled blocks of time, that are repeated to get the work done.

A team chooses the work to be completed from the funnel in each iteration

Iterations can start and end on any dya of the week
In operations, iterations are three to four weeks compared to program work where the typical iteration is two weeks

The wall of work is an easy way to see ownership of tasks and to track progress to get things done.
A wall of work is organised by columns
Each task or piece of work is noted on a card or sticky note, along with the responsible team member for completing the work.
As the work gets done, the responsible member moves the task card or sticky note to the appropriate column.

A retrospective meeting is one of the most important practices because it allows teams to answer the fundanmental question of Agile: How do we get better?
The core team has the members are brought onto do the bulk of the work.
Extended team members are brought onto assist and do work when needed.
The governance team is the group that provides guidance and direction for the overall team.

Small means teams of five to nine people
Dedicated means people on Agile teams are only on one team they are dedicated to that team
Cross functional means teams have all the skills required to do the kind of work they are being asked to do on the team
Empowered means exactly that. Teams have the ability to make decisions and to decide how problems are solved and how work gets done.

The core team is responsible for completing the work. Core teams are small, dedicated, cross-functional and empowered.

Core team role include iteration manager, product owner, the doers and subject matter expert.

The extended team assists and provides insights into completing the work 
Extended team roles include agile project manager, stakeholder, change manager and subject matter expert

The governence team provides guidance and direction for the overall team
Goverance team roles include a sponsor, a steering commitee or both

Kanban method is a method for managing process-oriented work with an emphasis on just in time delivery, while not overloading the team

5 principles of Kanban method:
Visualise
Limit WIP
Manage Flow
Make process policies explicit
Improve collaboratively
