
https://www.linkedin.com/learning/develop-a-high-performance-mindset/become-the-ceo-of-your-career?autoplay=true&u=56746241

Fixed mindset are a mindset that is set in stone, thinking that you will never change. A growth mindset shows that you use the experience to learn from and that it doesn't define you. You have to train your brain to use a growth mindset to allow it to develop in a way that helps you propel your career. Think of feedback as not a criticism but an opportunity to improve. Challenges are a fact of life. Look for solutions. 

Unpack your fears: What's the worst that could happen? If the worst thing happens, how can I respond?

Worst case scenario isn't as bad as you think.
Start something new. Observe without judgement. 
"Approach learning as a life long experience. All learning activities undertaken throughout life, with the aim of improving knowledge, skills and competences within a personal, civic, social, and/or employment-related perspective" - European commission

Lifelong learning: Apply for stretch projects that will push you out of your comfort zone.
Read new perspectives

Write down the skills that you think you will need
Compare it against the skills you've acquired
Develop a plan on how you'll fill the gaps

You aren't responsible for the actions of others but you should hold yourself accountable, not to blame, about the things that you have or haven't been doing and what your reaction to that situation should be.

Accountability is a key element of a growth mindset. it's about recognising that every choice we make has a consequence. You have to be conscious of the actions you are taking and how they may impact you or others.

"I," "from my perspective," and "I received what you said as..." make it clear you are speaking for yourself. "You always" and "you are" make broad and often inaccurate generalisations about the other person.

L - learn to listen - becoming defensive is a natural response to protect ourselves from being attacked. This isn't necessary because you are only being held accountable not being attacked.
A - Acknowledge and apologise - Focus on the impact of your words or actions rather than your intention. If you lead with your intention then you disregard how your actions make the other person feel.
T - Take action - You know better, so do better. Ask yourself what you should be doing differently from this point onwards.
T - Talk about it - don't let embarrassment prevent you from sharing your experience with others.
E - Educate yourself - There's no shame in not knowing something but there is shame in not educating yourself in the reason why you are wrong. 

Working remotely:
Trust one another. Trust - A firm belief in the reliability, truth or ability of someone or something. When people trust you they are more likely to value your experience, your impact, judgement and opinions.
Ask questions - Asking for clarification isn't a sign you can't do something, it is a sign of strength and curiosity. 
Offer help - Offering support to people might be helpful to them in ways that they haven't considered.
Be respectful and inclusive - It's okay to disagree but that doesn't mean you should dismiss the values of the people around you.

Update social media - It allows you to be intentional with why you are there. This allows you to easily scan the trending topics that day. Follow industry hashtags and competitors.
Subscribe to trade journals and magazines - It will allow you to find articles by influencers in your industry. 
Build your network - Speak to people outside of your team to build your horizons. Get involved with events that happen within your organisation

Prepare for a Networking Event
Ask the organiser for a list of attendees
Make a note of who you would like to speak to
Research them to come prepared

Icebreakers
What do you enjoy most about your work?
What changes in the industry are you most excited about?
What other groups or activities do you recommend I participate in?

Follow up after networking
Connect with them on social media
Email your feedback on their contribution during a panel discussion
Let them know you joined the network they recommended
Introduce them to one of your contracts

Seeing yourself as the CEO of your life:
Allowing yourself to visalise yourself as your own organisation.
Having different departments such as Family, Wellbeing, Finance and Career.

Career department:
Experience
Skills
Talents
All of which you can offer to an employer, which makes your employer your customer.

Values - What you believe and consider to be important to your professional and personal life. Values communicate what you need to do your job successfully.
Values help you develop an understanding of yourself and be accountable at work.
List your values, categorise them into personal and professional (sometimes these overlap.)
Focus on your top 5 values and set a standard.

People Skills - The ability to communicate with people in a friendly way, and therefore deal with them effectively, especially in business. - Cambridge dictionary.
Emotional intelligence - Being aware and in charge of your emotions by understanding your triggers and how your behaviour impacts others.
