Agile Explorer

Learning Outcomes:
Explain the importance of Agile
Describe the five Agile values
Describe the three Agile Principles
Describe the three Agile patterns
Apply Agile values, principles and practices in your family, school or other work

Agile embraces specific values, priciples and practices that enable you as an individual and teams, groups and businesses to get better and to improve.
Mindset = A way of thinking or having a certain attitude about something

Agile Manifesto - Individuals and interactions over processes and tools. Working software (products) over comprehensive documentation customer collaboartion over contract negotiation responding to change over a following plan.

Value = as having relative worth, merit, utility or importance.

So the values you live by and the values you walk past are your values.
Everyone is expected to live by these Agile values and not walk by them.

IBM Agile values - Trust, Empathy, Respect, Openness and courage

Openness - Be transparent to the team by sharing your ideas and suggestions
Courage - Speak up when you see something isn't working and suggest another idea to get back on the right track

Being vulnerable actually builds trust 
Empathy promotes commitment and cooperation
Respect allows the flow of diverse and different thinking, ideas and solution
Openness promotes being repective to new and differing ideas and being outwardly transparent with the team
Courage promotes speaking up to share new ideas or to pause work when something isn't working

Define the problem
Determine the user outcomes
Always keep this high-level outcome insight in everything you do

Agile principles guide how we do our work
Begin with clarity about the outcome and let it guide every step along the way
Agile way is understanding that a better solution exists and it might take several iterations to achieve
Listen, iterate, learn and continually improve. Working in an Agile way means being flexible to make adjustments, to iterate and evolve. As you move towards your goals, new information might require you to re-examine them. While it's important to have the outcome in mind, it's equally important to adapt quickly.

No trust = sense of invulnerability

Build small, self-directed teams with the right rights to encourage self-direction and innovation.
Practice or Practices as repeated or customaryaction or the usual way of doing something
Social Contract - A simple agreement that defines how a group will work together "at it's best"
Clear expectations builds trust among team members
Trust increases productivity, innovation and effeciencies among team members

Mood marbles - green marbles are good, red marbles are bad

Track the mood of the team every day
Overtime, look for any patterns. For example, perhaps you notice a pattern of red marbles that occur before deadlines, or pattern of green marbles after tasks are completed.
This allows you to be aware of any issues and address them ahead of time.

Wall of work is a simple, visual way to track progress. The wall of work is an easy way to see ownership of tasks and to track progress to get things done.

Have fun customizing the wall becasue it gets everyone involved and encourages ownership

Standup meetings are short status meetings, usually done daily.

Gather everyone together
Team members take one minute to give status on three items:
What I've done since the last stand up
What I'll do before the next stand up
Blockers, if any

Team members make note of any meetings to be schuduled or tasks to be completed as a result of the discussion

Retrospect means to take back in thought or reflect
What went well? What didn't go well? What's puzzling us?

Showcase is a meeting where the team presents the work completed to the stakeholders and other interested parties and obtains feedback for moving forward.

The feedback provides guidanceto the team about:
What to prioritise
What to temporarily set aside
What to remove from the back log (the open list of things still to do)

Showcases should always involve:
Reviewing the work completed
Discussing what is coming next
Deciding if there are any adjustments needed

In Agile, a showcase is the best way to get feedback on completed work and direction for going forward.

When holding a showcase, you and the team collabrate with the stakeholders and interested parties.

Shuhari is japanese for protect-detach-leave
Shu is about becoming disciplined in following the rules, processes and procedures of doing things with no deviation or exception.
Ha is the stage of making adjustments or innovations to doing things
Ri is the stage of creating new rules or ways of doing things
Shuhari can be applied to other practices and disciplines such as Agile.

Five steps in the patterns
Mobilize 
Understand
Explore and strategize
Build, test and implement
Manage and explore

Three Agile patterns that organizations use to get work done are:
Strategy and governance - leaders develop direction
Operations - continues repeatable and day to day work
Programs - definite start and end

Distributed teams can use the Agile method, with its values, principles and practices with some additional effort, considerations and tools.

Anyone who knows the method can use Agile for anytype of work whether it be strategic, project or day to day tasks to quickly deliver meaningful and quality work. 
Design thinking is a framework for delivering great user experiences to clients or customer.
Design thinking techinques integrate with the Agile practices for a better user experiences.